---
title: "Center for Advanced Studies, Research and Development in Sardinia"
permalink: /consortium/crs4/
---
Visual Computing Group, CRS4, Ex-Distilleria, Via Ampere 2, 09134 Cagliari (CA), Italy

Website: [http://www.crs4.it/vic/](http://www.crs4.it/vic/)

Scientist in Charge: [Dr. Enrico Gobbetti](http://www.crs4.it/vic/cgi-bin/people-page.cgi?name=%27enrico.gobbetti%27)

The Center for Advanced Studies, Research and Development in Sardinia (CRS4) is a leading interdisciplinary Italian research center focusing on large-scale computational problems, information and computational technologies, and on their application to a broad range of important areas, including biomedicine and biotechnology, information society, energy and environment, and cultural heritage. For the last 10 years, the publication record of CRS4 includes more than 320 scientific publications in international journals, more than 450 publications in conference proceedings and 32 books and book chapters.

Enrico Gobbetti is EVOCATION training coordinator. He will be supervising ESR03  and ESR04, and leading WP6 on Network Wide Training and Summer Schools. He is the founder and director of CRS4 Visual Computing (ViC). He holds an Engineering degree (1989) and a Ph.D. degree (1993) in Computer Science from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne (EPFL), as well as Full Professor Habilitations in Computer Science and Computer Engineering from the Italian Ministry of University and Research. Prior to joining CRS4, he held positions at EPFL, UMBC, and NASA CESDIS. His research spans many areas of visual computing and is widely published in major journals and conferences. His services to the scientific community include editorial board membership for Computer Graphics Forum (2008-2011), The Visual Computer (2010-now), Frontiers in Virtual Environments (2014-now), and IEEE TVCG (2015-now), general chairing of Eurographics 2012 and EuroVis 2015, and program chairing of ACM Web3D 2014 and EGPGV 2016. He participated as (co-)principal investigator in 12 FP4-H2020 projects, he was training coordinator for the EU FP7 DIVA ITN Network (11 ESR and 3 ER), has participated to the FP6 3DANATOMICALHUMAN ITN (1 ER and 1 ESR supervised), and has directed the thesis of 4 PhD students. He has been member of the PhD evaluation commission or reviewer of several international PhD students (in Switzerland, Spain, France, The Netherlands, and Sweden). In 2015, he has been nominated Fellow of the Eurographics association for his research contributions in massive model visualization, his wide publication activity, and his contributions to the European graphics community. He has been awarded as best associate editor in 2016 by IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics.