---
title: "University of Zürich"
permalink: /consortium/uzh/
---
Visualization and Multimedia Lab, Department of Informatics, Binzmühlestr. 14, 8050 Zürich,Switzerland

Website: [https://www.ifi.uzh.ch/en/vmml.html](https://www.ifi.uzh.ch/en/vmml.html)

Scientist in Charge: [Renato Pajarola](https://www.ifi.uzh.ch/en/vmml/people/current-staff/pajarola.html)

The University of Zürich (UZH) is the largest University in Switzerland. The Department of Informatics is the major research and teaching institution in informatics, with an average of 13 Swiss National Science Foundation funded research projects over the last five years and participation in no less than 16 EU research projects (whereof 5 EU projects as coordinator). The PI’s institute is embedded in UZH’s Faculty of Business, Economics and Informatics and thus has direct and strong links to business and economics research and education, also explicitly expressed through dedicated degree programs combining economics and informatics.

Prof.Dr.Renato Pajarola will be supervising ESR05  and ESR06, and leading WP3 on Interactive Visualization. Renato Pajarola is a full Professor in Computer Science in the Department of Informatics at the University of Zürich (UZH). He received his Dipl. Inf-Ing ETH and Dr. sc. techn. degrees in computer science from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH) Zurich in 1994 and 1998 respectively. Subsequently he was a post-doctoral researcher and lecturer in the Graphics, Visualization & Usability (GVU) Center at Georgia Tech. In 1999 he joined the University of California Irvine (UCI) as an Assistant Professor where he established the Computer Graphics Lab. Since 2005 he has been leading the Visualization and MultiMedia Lab (VMML) at UZH. He is a senior member of ACM and IEEE,  and a Fellow of the Eurographics Association. HIs research interests include real-time 3D graphics, geometric modeling, point based graphics, interactive large-scale scientific visualization, remote and parallel rendering, compression and interactive 3D multimedia. He has published a wide range of internationally peer-reviewed research articles in top journals and conferences. Prof. Pajarola regularly serves on program committees, such as for example the IEEE Visualization Conference (2004-06,09-11,14), Eurographics (2010-11,13-14, 16), EuroVis Conference (2006-10,13-15, 18), IEEE Pacific Visualization (2008-10) or ACM SIGGRAPH Symposium on Interactive 3D Graphics and Games (2013-16). He was co-chair and organizer of  Eurographics 2015 and EGPGV 2010, and papers co-chair of EG PBG 2007, 2008,EGPGV 2011 and IEEE LDAV 2014. His publications received Best Paper or Honorable Mention Awards from Eurographics (2005), IADIS (2007), SPIE (2013), Pacific Graphics (2016( and ACM SIGGRAPH Symposium on Visualization (2016).